Warm welcome to ICICI Lombard General
Insurance Company Limited Q1 FI 2026
earnings conference call
from the senior management we have with
us today Mr. Sanjiv Mantri MD and CEO of
the company Mr. Gopal Balachandran CFO
Mr. Anand Singhi chief retail and
government business Mr. Girishesh Nayak,
Chief Technology and Health Underwriting
and Claims,
Mr. Sep Gorada, Chief Corporate
Solutions International Bank assurance
and Mr. Gorov Aurora, Chief Reinsurance,
Underwriting and Claims for Property and
Casualty.
Please note that any statements commence
are made in today's call that may look
like forward-looking statements are
based on information presently available
to the management and do not constitute
an indication of any future performance
as future involves risks and
uncertainties which could cause results
to defer materially from the current
views being expressed.
As a reminder, all participant clients
will be in the listenonly mode and there
will be an opportunity for you to ask
questions after the presentation
concludes. Should you need assistance
during the call, please signal an
operator by pressing star then zero on
your touchstone phone.
I now hand the conference over to Mr.
Sanjie Mantri, MD and CEO ICIC Lombard
General Insurance Limited. Thank you and
over to you sir.
>> Thank you so much. Sir
good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call of ICL Lombard General Insurance
Company for quarter 1 2026.
Let me give you a brief overview of the
trends we observed in the economy as
well as our industry followed by an
overview of the business. Post this our
CFO Mr. Gopal Balachand will share the
financial performance of the company for
the quarter ended June 30, 2025.
India's GDP growth for quarter 4
financial year 2025 surprised positively
at 7.4%.
And the fullear growth came in at 6.5%
according to according to the data
released by Mosby.
Key macroeconomic indicators such as GST
collections and performance of
infrastructure sector indicate some
positive momentum for quarter 1
financial year 2026.
RBI's cut in the report rate by 50 basis
point in early June 2025. income tax
incentives by government and benign
inflation is expected to augur well for
the domestic economy.
Let me now dwell on certain industry
trends which can have an impact on the
GI industry at large.
In the current quarter, the government's
continued emphasis on infrastructure
deployment by has fueled growth across
key sectors such as cement, steel,
infrastructure and capital goods. With
the banking sector remaining healthy and
capital utili and capacity utilization
exceeding historical norms, any increase
in domestic demand could serve as a
catalyst for private capital
expenditure. These factors present a
positive outlook for the commercial and
of business in coming quarters.
In quarter 1 2026, as per the data
published by CM, private car and two
wheeler segment drew by 1 and a half%
and 7.2% y respectively.
However, in quarter 1 financial year
2026,
this is the data published by FA auto
industry has grown by 4.9%.
The private car segment grew by 2.6%
registering.97 million in sales. The two
segment has been seen a modest growth of
5% contributed by contributed by both
urban and rural consumers.
As the monsoon is forecasted to be
normal, we anticipate that it will
further fuel the rural demand.
Commercial vehicle has seen a growth of
7% which was led by strong growth in
electric three-wheeler category.
As an organization, we remain optimistic
for the motor business in coming months.
The health segment remains the largest
contributor to the industry accounting
for 40.2% of the GDPI mix in quarter 1
2026.
Rising hiring activity, escalating
medical cost and sustained credit growth
are the key drivers fueling continued
demand for health insurance.
However, the overall industry growth
trajectory continues to be a to be
moderated by the impact of the one by
accounting norm.
Despite this, the fundamentals of the
health insurance segment remain strong,
positioning it as a critical pillar of
long-term industry growth.
Given the favorable economic indicators
and positive regulatory environment, we
expect the general insurance industry to
continue the growth momentum in medium
to long term.
However, we remain vigilant on the
ongoing geopolitical developments which
may pose risk to both global growth and
Indian economy.
Let me now share on an update on key
industry level events.
Happy to share that recently launched
campaign ATA insurancea is an
commendable step by the general
insurance industry towards enhancing
awareness and consequently increasing
insurance penetration across diverse
customer segments.
This unified effort reflect the sector's
growing commitment to driving financial
protection and resilience in India. As
one of the leading players in this
industry, ICC Lombard is well placed to
contribute and benefit from the same.
Another key event wherein the country
was deeply affected was a tragic Air
India plane crash.
We extend a sincere condolences to the
families who lost their loved ones. An
event of this magnitude can have
profound effect on all those involved.
As an industry and as an insurer, we
responded swiftly prioritizing and
supporting the affected family members
and other stakeholders during these
difficult times.
Now coming to the industry performance
for quarter 1 financial year 2026,
the GDPI grew by 8.8% 8% for quarter 1
2026.
Excluding the impact of the 1 byN
accounting norm, the GDPI grew by 12.8%
for quarter 1 2026.
Excluding crop and massel, the GDPI grew
by 11.1% for quarter 1 2026.
Speaking on the specific segments within
the industry, the commercial segment
reported a growth of 13% for the period
ending quarter 1 financial year 2026.
The growth is majorly driven by improved
pricing and property lines of business.
The motor segment view for the indust
growth for the industry stood at 8.7%
for the period quarter 1 2026.
The industry continues to witness
significant pricing pressure as
reflected by higher industry combined
ratio for the motor line of business.
The health segment including mass health
grew by 8.1% for the period quarter 1
2026. Within this, the group health line
of business grew by 9.6% for quarter 1
whereas the retail health group stood at
9.4% 4% for quarter 1 2026 impacted by
the 1 byN accounting norm.
Speaking on the underwriting performance
of the industry overall the combined
ratio for the industry worsen to 112.6%
for financial year 2025 as against 112%
for financial year 2024.
The overall combined ratio for private
players worsen to 111.4 4 for financial
year 2025 from 108.7% for financial year
2024.
Industry combined worsening was largely
due to motor and of business. It stood
at 123.7%
for financial year 2025 resulting 118.5%
for financial year 2024.
As against this our continued focus on
driving profitable growth has helped us
to show a combined ratio of 102.8 8 for
financial year 2025 versus 103.3% for
financial year 2024.
Also, it is pertinent to note that the
company's contribution to overall
underwriting losses is at 2.7%
only with an 8.7% market share for
financial year 2025.
I will now speak about a company's
performance across key business in
quarter 1 financial year 2026.
The company's GDP registered a growth of
6% as against the industry growth of
8.8% for quarter 1 2026.
Excluding crop and mass health, the
company's growth was at 3.4% compared to
the industry growth of 11.1%
for quarter 1 2026.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 6.8% 8% for quarter 1
2026 as again the industry growth of 13%
for the same period.
The industry has seen an improvement in
pricing at an overall level. However,
there have been different levels of
price action within subcategories of
commercial lines. We continue to drive
profitability through food and risk
selection and distributionled growth. We
have maintained a leadership leadership
position in engineering and marine cargo
line of business.
In the motor segment, our growth stood
at 3.2% for quarter 1 2026 as against
the industry growth of 8.7%.
In the backdrop of elevated competitive
intensity, as stated earlier, we
continue to drive our strategy in motor
insurance based on granular portfolio
segmentation and distribution expansion.
We continue to maintain a leadership
position with a market share of 10.5%
for quarter 1, 2026. Our
portfolio mix for private car,
two-wheeler and commercial vehicles
stood at 54.8%
27% and 18.2% respectively in comparison
to the mix of quarter 1 2025 which stood
at 51.5%
26% and 22.5% respectively.
In health segment we grew by 1.9% for
quarter 1 2026 as against the industry
growth of 8.1%
as at quarter 1 2026 on a 1 byN basis.
Our retail health business plan
continued to maintain the growth
momentum pursuant to which we have
gained the market share. We registered a
growth of 32.2%
as against industry growth of 9.4% as
quarter 1 2026. The contour innovation
in retail health products and investment
in retail health distribution has helped
us to increase market share which now
stands at 3.5% for quarter 1 2026 as
against 2.9% for quarter 1 2025.
Our group health segment degrrew by 2.5%
for quarter 1 2026 when compared with
quarter 1 2025
resulting in a market share being at
10.1%.
This was essentially attributable
to lower growth in our group benefit
segment due to muted credit disbursement
coupled with impact of one byan
accounting norms.
would now like to apprise you of other
key initiatives of our organization.
The initiatives under one team continue
to deliver measurable results
underscoring our commitment to
sustainable and profitable growth at the
organization level.
A key initiative in this journey has
been the consolidation of our customerf
facing call center into a unified one
call center aimed at standardizing
practices, enhancing operational
efficiencies and delivering a superior
customer experience through strategic
technology intervention.
The integration of process under this
initiative resulted in a 78% increase in
productivity for quarter 1 2026 along
with deduction in headcounts of the
fresh acquisition team and service team
by 22% and 10% respectively.
Our digital service engagement has gone
up to 38% in quarter 1 2026 up from 22%
in quarter 1 2025.
This was made possible through use of
artificial intelligence, voice bot,
propensity modeling and targeted
campaigns.
We further improved our efficiency in
motor claims. Our preferred partner
network serviced 74.6%
of our nonm claims in quarter 1 2026 up
from 72% in quarter 1 2025.
Launch launched in April of 2024, our is
Sahayak initiative has strengthened on
groundbound claim support for health
customers.
In quarter 1 2026, the initiative
assisted over 28,000 customers,
reflecting an increase from 8,000
customers supported in quarter 1 of
2025.
This growth highlights a continued focus
on enhancing the customer experience and
delivering timely accessible support
during the critical moments.
Our digital platform continues to aid
our growth with visitors increasing 21%
year on year and increase in fresh
business by 69% yearon year. This is
fueled by a one-stop solution I'll take
care app for all insurance and wellness
needs which surpassed 15.6 million
downloads.
Our focus on customer experience and
process efficiency has led to an NPS of
68 and 69 for health and motor claims
respectively for financial year 2025.
We have demonstrated resilience amidst
industry challenges. Maintaining a focus
on profitability
guided by our one team philosophy, we
continue to harness the power of data
technology and innovation to drive our
progress. Our robust multi-product
multi-distribution strategy allow us to
adopt swiftly and serve our customers
more effectively while delivering
profitable growth. I will now request
Gopage to take you through the financial
numbers for the recently concluded
quarter. Thanks Ajiv uh and good evening
to each one of you. I will now give you
a brief overview of the financial
performance of the recently concluded
quarter. We have uploaded the results
presentation on our website and you can
access it as we walk you through the
performance numbers with effect from
October 1, 2024. Long-term products are
accounted on a 1 byN basis as mandated
by Idi
Q1 FI26 numbers are not comparable with
prior periods. Please refer to our
investor presentation for further
details. The gross direct premium income
of the company was rupes 77.35 billion
in Q1 FI26 as against rupees 76.88 88
billion in Q1 FI25 a growth of6% as
against the industry growth of 8.8%.
Excluding crop and mass sales GDPI
growth of the company was 3.4% viz with
the industry growth of 11.1% in Q1 and
FI26.
Our GDPI growth during the quarter was
primarily driven by growth in the
preferred segments. So overall GDP of
our property and casualty segment grew
by 6.8% 8% to rupees 26.77 billion in Q1
FI26 as against rupees 25.08 billion in
Q1 FI25.
On the retail side of the business, the
GDPI of the motor segment was at rupees
24.44 billion in Q1 FI26 as against
rupees 23.69 billion in Q1 FI25
registering a growth of 3.2%.
The advanced premium numbers for the
motor segment was at 38.07 07 billion
rupees as at June 30, 2025 as against
37.17 billion as at March 31, 2025.
GDP of the health segment was at rupees
23.81 billion in this quarter as against
rupes 23.37 billion in Q1 last year
registering a growth of 1.9%. Our agent
which includes the point of sale
distribution count was at 1 1 lakh
43,675
as at June 30 up from 1 lakh 40,736.
This was the number as at March 31 2025.
Our combined ratio stood at 102.9%
for Q1 FI26
as against 102.3%
for Q1 FI25. Our investment assets
during the quarter rose to rups 554.53
billion as at June 30 2025 up from rups
535.08 billion as at March 31 2025. Our
investment leverage net of borrowing
remained the same at 3.74 times as at
June 30, 2025 and as at March 31 2025.
Investment income was at rupees 12.88 88
billion in Q1 FI26
as against rupees 11.28 billion in Q1
FI25.
Our capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 3.8
billion in Q1 FI26 compared to rupees
2.84 billion in Q1 FI25. Our profit
before that grew by 28.4% to rupees 9.94
billion in Q1 FI26 as against rupees
7.74 billion in Q1 FI25.
Consequently, profit after tax grew by
28.7% to rupees 7.47 billion in Q1 FI26
as against rupees 5.8 billion in Q1
FI25. Return on average equity was at
20.5% in Q1 FI26 as against 19.1% in Q1
FI25. Solveny ratio was at 2.7 times as
at June 30, 2025 as against 2.69 times
as at March 31, 2025. This continues to
be higher than the minimum regulatory
requirement of 1.5 times.
As I conclude, I would like to reassure
that we remain committed and focused on
our strategy of innovation and driving
profitable growth, consistent and
sustain sustainable value creation for
all our stakeholders while continually
ensuring that the interest of the
industry and our policy holders is in
the forefront at all times. Thank you
and we'll be open to take questions.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
the question and answer session. Anyone
who wishes to ask questions may press
star and one on the touchstone
telephone. If you wish to remove
yourself from the question queue, you
may press star and participants are
requested to use handsets while asking
questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will
wait for a moment while the question Q
assembles.
To ask questions, please press star and
one.
First question is from Nishin Chawat
from Kota. Please go ahead.
>> Uh yeah hi uh thanks for uh taking my
question. Uh my my question is actually
on the lines of uh you know businesses
uh you know somewhere at the beginning
you mentioned that uh pricing has
improved uh in this segment but uh I
think at the same time you also said
that you know there are different levels
of pricing and as I see you've kind of
you know shrunk the market share a
little bit in this segment. uh so just
curious what is your view on this
segment and uh do you expect this to be
uh you know a profitability accretive uh
in this financial year.
>> Sure I think thank thanks Vish for your
question. Uh the simple answer is I mean
uh overall yes with the overall
sentiments and pricing getting better we
do expect it to be more profitable. If
you remember uh last year when we were
you know reaching out in every possible
quarter we had spoken about the
excessive uh uh intensity and aggression
on the pricing front. Uh certainly
there's a bit of a semblance overall. Uh
but uh we also said along with the
multiple sections and competitive
intensity that we have seen what we have
done is distributionled growth primarily
because on the larger corporate side of
the larger risk still there has been
some bit of a aggressive pricing which
has come in. We've done what is required
uh to drive profitable growth for us. uh
your your seek on do you expect it to
continue? Uh our firm belief is yes uh
and what market is doing at this point
is pricing risk appropriately
uh which was not happening otherwise in
the previous year.
>> So this should actually be a kind of you
know profitability accretive this year
is what we are trying to say.
>> I mean it's very difficult to forecast
the simple answer is pricing improves it
should be better than what it is. uh but
you know fire as a business plan has to
play out over quarters because it's
driven by very low frequency and very
high severity uh but it should be
profitive it should be profitable
overall my answer is yes but it will
have to play out because it's driven by
extreme losses as and when it happens if
it happens.
Uh yes of course. Uh the other question
is uh you know on the loss ratio in the
health business uh if you could uh help
help us uh you know split it between the
uh you know retail and the uh group
business.
>> So Nent uh uh I'm giving the group
numbers first which is corporate health
Q1 last year was 97.9. This is the last
year Q1
>> 97.9 that number for Q1 this year is at
95.7.
uh on the retail intermittity again
similar periods. Q1 last year was 72.5.
Q1 this year is 74.3.
>> Uh got it. Thank you very much and all
the best.
>> Thanks. Thank you.
>> Thank you. The next question is from
Madukar Lada from Noama Wealth
Management. Please go ahead.
Yeah,
you
>> seem to have lost the line from Adukar.
We'll move to the next question. The
next question is from Pra Jane from
Motilwal. Please go ahead.
>> Hey, just just a follow up on the loss
ratio of the retail health. Uh you you
mentioned it's gone up from 72.5
to 74.3.
Given that we would have had a very
strong growth on the fresh premium uh
would you say that the severity and the
frequency of uh retail indemnity has
gone up substantially?
So pra I think uh if you remember even
last year first quarter we did kind of
talk about a slight increase in
incidences. Uh so we do see that playing
out even for quarter one of this year.
So there has been definitely an increase
in uh incidents but uh as you would have
seen when we even when we started the
last year quarter one number was 72.5
but by the time we ended if you would
have seen the number on a full year
basis our retailers work ratio ended at
about 67.9
>> uh so and exactly to your point I think
what's helping us is uh the growth that
we are seeing uh largely kind of aided
by the ele elevate product offering that
we have been talking about I think that
continues to kind do well and therefore
this is just quarter one and our
expectation is pretty much in line with
the range of loss ratios that we have
spoken. I think in all fairness the
expectation is that we should kind of uh
end the end the year in that same loss
ratio range of 65 to 70%. That's the
range that's the range at which we are
comfortable with and as of now I think
things seems to be pretty much looking
around uh within that range. Uh this is
just a quarter one uh phenomenon.
just uh and again the 32% growth that
you have seen on the retail retail
health uh how much would you add how
much of that would be say portability
and how much would it be from uh say you
know first time customers to the
industry can you give some qualitative
comments there because that will help us
understand the quality of business
>> so pre in general I think if you look at
it I think our market share has been
very low right so I think uh as a
company we have had an agree we get
market share of 2.9 I think we have
moved the needle which is what we talked
about to move at about 3.5%.
And the endeavor for us is to obviously
kind of make sure that again if you
remember last quarter four we did speak
about the initiative that we're trying
to do on retaining our own customers. So
therefore in that sense obviously that's
a that's an area where we are actively
focusing on so that we are able to kind
of improve our own retention and two
again the objective will be to try and
see if we can get more customers
particularly which are new to insurance
uh to your point on what could be the
extent of portability we don't
separately call out that number but I
think clearly from our standpoint I
think what we can talk about is on a
relative basis I think the proportion of
what we would have seen as a rollover
whether it is quarter 1 or quarter four
of last year visibly what we have seen
in quarter one. I think definitely that
mix is lower.
>> Okay. And uh just coming back to the uh
the motor segment uh what is your
thoughts on motor DP price hack? Do you
think uh that can come through? So hi P
Sanjie here we are also as much aware as
you are there is enough and more news
that we can uh we are you know ourselves
seeing that something is expected has
the industry made the representation
answer is yes uh uh but we would not
have any update beyond that uh but it's
it's it's kind of expected uh but in our
working and in our thought process and
in our sourcing the way we operate we
take things as they exist at this point
of time where there is no TP hike uh but
we we must share the optimism which is
there overall that since for last four
years almost there's been very little
that has happened on the TP side uh some
uh increase uh would be a relief for the
industry overall
>> I just follow up on that can it happen
without the chair person and the
regulators
So uh the manner in which it gets
announced is more in consultation with
IIDA. So uh it can happen technically
but again this is something which is
beyond our embit and we don't want to
you know further uh dwell on this uh
structurally from whatever it's uh known
to us it's possible since I mean goal
any views on this? So I think only other
thing that I would add the price is I
think uh definitely what warrants a
price increase. I think this is what I
think the industry has been largely
looking at as in for example again
similar to what we have been speaking
which is when we see court compensation
or court award getting exhibited and the
element of uh uh claim inflation that
you're required to build as a part of
the loss cost. Definitely there is every
reason for us to believe that uh one
should definitely seek a price change.
Exactly when will it happen? How would
how it would get notified? I think
honestly we'll have to wait for it. But
there is definitely a case for the
industry to seek a price increase given
the fact that for the last few years uh
we have not necessarily seen in that
sense a meaningful price increase on
third party.
>> Thank you. The next question is from
Shank Ga from a Wendis Park. Please go
ahead.
>> Yeah. And thank you for the opportunity.
See the fire growth for for us has been
lower compared to industry and and we we
invariably are the market leaders after
probably new in that business. So, so
they just wanted to understand that
given given the bulk of the business
happens in first quarter in commercial
lines is it fair to say that maybe
because of the pricing environment um
our expected growth which was maybe
meaningfully very higher will remain at
the current levels for the full year.
>> Fair question. uh I if it is uh
something which you have to think as a
trend I believe our growth can also
increase uh overall in coming quarters
but the bulk of the booking booking does
happen in first quarter to that extent
mathematically speaking uh you are right
uh however progressively last year the
discounting kept increasing as quarters
kept happening right so the market kept
hitting new levels of discount so to
that extent if there is some assemblage
that is coming in the industry should
show further positive trend as far as Yi
growth is concerned and in line with
that we would also like to believe and
back ourselves to say that we will also
see that positive trend continuing.
However, whether we will be able to
bridge the delta that is existing in
quarter one uh that our endeavor
obviously is uh to get that managed over
quarters and see that we stay where we
want to be.
It will be purely a function of uh how
the pricing elements are working out in
different sections and we will take a
call accordingly.
Got it. Got it. And and the second thing
which I wanted to understand is that if
I look at the motor growth based on the
mix what you disclosed in the PPT it
seems that you you regrrew largely in
the commercial vehicles while while your
growth in two wheelers and cars looks
okay compared to overall growth. So, so
is it largely because of the um
intensive competitive environment or or
or or we reccalibrating compared to what
we did last year um in that line of
business.
>> Uh no no S I think you're again spot on.
Uh see beginning of the year again the
normal inflation and all of that in
comes through in our respective loss
ratios that is expected to happen. uh
and if there's no TP hike it does make
uh the overall maths adverse and and
logically speaking the cost of
acquisition to that extent should get
adjusted so that uh the TPI if it's not
there still the overall mass falls in
place uh we did realize that the market
overall did not change the trajectory
and we felt to be a bit more prudent uh
at this point of time you you are spot
on yes that's what they reflective of uh
it is not that uh we don't want to uh do
the right thing and see CV also showing
positivity but uh it's purely a function
of selection which has made us uh come
out the way we have come out in terms of
outcome but we don't want to do it and
you know that is at the cost of
profitability
so basically in simple words if if there
is a price like say in couple of months
um then easy trade to say that you you
might see a pullback or or a better
growth in in CV segment. So the again
the function is uh uh it's it's a
function of how the market reacts
further suppose I'm just giving a
scenario the simple answer to what you
said is logically yes it should work out
what you're saying but supposedly the
market reacts again much more sharply
and ends up throwing a lot more money
>> in terms of costition we will again end
up calibrating
so
logically what you're saying happen but
we'll have to wait till it plays out.
>> Got it. Got it. Perfect. And and last
one, crop insurance 1425 crores what we
did last year. Um uh today today we are
doing just 18 crores in the current
quarter. Maybe timing difference. So
given given you mentioned in the PP that
you won few clusters. So so is it fair
to say that there will be year-on-year
growth in the crop business in the
current year? uh year on year growth
difficult to and we said see for crop
most of the things will come up for
bidding next financial year this year
there are very few actions so as luck
could have it the maharashtra where we
were already there and this year should
have last year has gone for retendering
consequent to which we had to rebid
whether we were to match it or grow only
time will tell but not too many
opportunities at this point of time uh
to see that we can exceed that number at
least at this time.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> All right.
>> The next question is from Nidesh Jane
from Invest. Please go ahead.
>> Uh hi sir. Uh thanks for the
opportunity. So my question is on
competitive intensity. So which are
these players who are uh who are
engaging in intense compet competition
in at this point in time. uh because uh
last time these were mostly private
sector players but this time if you look
at the data industry data the market
share gain is happening from PSU
players.
>> So what is driving that and how do you
see that ending up? Uh last time couple
of players have shown very high losses
and then competitive intensity reduces
for one year but again we are again
seeing that competitive intensity is
increasing. So how do you see this play
plays out and what are the timelines
let's say when when this will taper off.
So Vij I think the way I think we would
respond is u I think all of this
thankfully has is public information.
Therefore I think the market clearly
knows which companies are aggressive
which companies are kind of gaining
market share. So uh without specifically
kind of getting into names um I think
this is all there in the public domain.
I think all that I which is what we kind
of put out as a part of the uh opening
transcript as in to say that and which
is which is what we called out even last
year. I think on motors specifically if
you would have seen honestly there was
an expectation last year for the
industry to actually see an improvement
in combines uh which if you remember
kind of kind of finally ended the year
with a combined ratio of almost 124% for
the industry as a whole compared to
roughly about 118% that we had seen one
year back. uh so so that's that's how we
have kind of headed into the current
year and that's also the reason why if
you would have seen for us I think
relative to the industry growth in motor
which has been a single digit number of
roughly about 8% plus uh our growth in
motor has been 3.2%. Uh so that's again
a conscious call. Now how long can some
of these players subsist uh elevated
competitive intensity? The good news is
again each for each of the companies
there is public disclosures on their
outcome in terms of combined ratios. Uh
some of the companies have uh while
majority of the companies we have the
full year numbers some companies
possibly could have announced numbers
even for quarter 1 as we speak. Uh so
clearly it seems to suggest that the
market continues to stay uh competitive
at 124% plus honestly we don't
necessarily kind of see uh at an
aggregate level to be very uh in that
sense gaining market share but within
the segments obviously we will kind of
grow where we think it is appropriate
and you know just to add to it uh as an
entity we had to show tremendous uh
patience uh uh if you you know go Back
in the history last year in H1 we had
gained then we kind of moderated and
that kind of moderation continued but we
know that uh if there is uh this kind of
intensity which is at a very different
level at this point of time we are
willing to uh uh wait it out uh and we
know those cycles will come where we'll
have our opportunity.
>> Yeah the the only thing is that the time
difference between cycle is quite short.
We are just getting one year of uh time
period where the competitive intensity
is okay but again then some new set of
players keep coming in and competitive
intensity increases then so it's not
that the two three year period there is
an upcycle in terms of uh reasonable
competitive intensity in the sector.
>> No fair point but the fact of the matter
is if new players are coming they also
over long-term are expecting value to be
created and that's why they attracting
new players. Suppose there are no new
players coming also also speaks out the
fact that it's not doing enough to
attract capital. Uh frankly speaking my
view to that decision is the other way
around and while that we would love to
have periods of you know uh 3 years two
years as you mentioned uh but we are
very well equipped with a multi-layer
multi-ro multi- channelannel uh entity
to manage these kinds of variability.
It's part of our day-to-day existence.
So at times from a investor standpoint
when you look at it you wonder what's
happening uh but as a company you know
and you see the numbers from you know
almost 2008 since the dearing happened
the industry grew at 15% and there about
around that region but we have probably
grown at 13 13 and a half almost a
percentage and a half lower over 2008 to
uh but the CG profit growth of the
industry is 10 and probably 8 to 10% and
ours is almost 20%. So uh we we back
ourselves in these times also. We would
love to have it the way you are saying
uh then this keeps us agile also. So it
really doesn't worry us but from your
standpoint maybe you've got a point.
>> Sure sir. Uh thank you sir. That's it
from Thanks. Thanks.
>> Thank you.
Before we take the next question, a
reminder to participants that you may
press star and one to join the question
queue.
The next question is from Shria Shivani
from CLSA. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah, thank you for the opportunity. I
have two questions. First is on the uh
on the tragedy that you mentioned about.
I just wanted to understand has uh how
much of the claims have been uh uh
included in our uh performance this
quarter with the hull losses have they
come in in this quarter or whether
they're going to come in the next
quarter and and I'm assuming there will
also be the personal accident bit uh so
that can be spread over some time I
understand but uh what has happened with
the aviation claim that I wanted to
understand uh second is on the long-term
policies. So, um I remember when this
was launched, there was a bit of
confusion or not confusion, the entire
way in which you are paying out
commissions to your distributor on the
long-term policy has also changed,
right? It'll be in that 1/3 format or
whatever whatever one by N format. Uh
so, has the behavior of the distributor
changed uh now that you're 69 months
into it? Uh in which product segments
has it changed? Are some product
segments going to become one-year
product only instead of being long-term?
because of this policy change some
commentary around that those are my two
questions thank you
>> sure so uh so sh on the first one I
think again as as we have always said I
think it's very difficult to kind of
comment on uh individual claims I think
what we can say for sure is uh uh what
we have which is what we have been kind
of telling even earlier at the time when
the incident had happened uh given the
exposure that we have on the risk the
impact that we on that we have on the
net they have been completely kind of
provided for. So whatever results that
you see uh for quarter one factors in
for the likely uh impact of claims
because honestly we will not know when
the estimate will eventually play out
but I think it is well within our
ability to kind of absorb such losses.
That's primarily the business that we
are in and therefore to that extent I
think we have been able to kind of
provide for uh estimates. This is uh
what we have as of 30th of June. uh to
your second point on uh long-term
policies. I think that's a flexibility
which I think clearly the market has uh
got. I think they have to decide in
terms of how do they want to incentivize
sourcing of policies. Uh as we speak,
you're right, we are into the third
quarter of the change. Uh market still
continues to exhibit differentiated
behavior in terms of some of them
exhibiting uh some of them kind of
seeking up front, some of them obviously
willing to kind of take over a period of
time. But if you ask us has there been
any major shift in the behavior relative
to what we had seen in Q3 and Q4 the
short answer is no. We have not
necessarily seen any major.
>> No. So so there you know I I'll quickly
agree you that uh as Gopal said that in
certain constructs of long-term uh there
can be differential practice but more so
on the health side the industry has been
very unified in terms of procuring uh
long-term products. uh initially in
initial quarters we did see the
long-term sourcing getting impacted for
us because we had moved in lines in the
regulation and others had not moved uh
but uh thank god in that sense that now
the practice has been uniformly
addressed by each one of them and from
there on we all see uh those numbers
reverting back. So to that extent it is
uh a positive sign and uh the partners
are also finding an obvious benefit of
doing long-term fin policies for the
customers. Yes. So there is uh normaly
as far as health part of the business is
concerned on the retail size.
>> Got it. Got it. And just on the first
question just a followup sorry uh how
much can we say is the uh is the total
combined ratio impact of that event
>> if there's a number it's baked in and
the fact that we are not calling out
otherwise we would have called out that
is something
usual shares
>> okay
>> and these are all estimates it is 55 but
it's uh addressed at this juncture and
we don't think it's appropriate to call
out that Sure.
Sure. It's okay. Um, thank you so much.
This was very useful. Thank you.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you.
Next question is from Madukar Lada from
Noama Wealth Management. Please go
ahead.
>> Hi. Uh, thank you for taking my
question. Uh, so I I got disconnected in
between. So maybe you know this is a
little bit of a repeat. Uh so when you
point out comparative intensity
uh are we seeing some letdown in
comparative intensity due to
uh increased uh due to probably slightly
lower commission payouts and and because
EU uh ratios remain high for a lot of
private uh guys. Uh and is it is it uh
is it is it because of that that the PSU
uh guys are increasing their share or is
it that the PSU PS PSU players pricing
itself is uh lower uh so so so that was
uh one question I mean you know why uh
and what is your expectation given that
you know now uh considerable amount of
time has passed and um uh levels still
remain very high for uh a lot of the
guys. So um so what is your expectation
uh on on what can happen out there?
Thanks.
>> Yeah. So Madukar I think uh you are
absolutely right. I think uh what will
be a key key watch uh will be because
this will be the third year of the glide
path that the regulator had uh announced
in 2024. Um even if you look at public
disclosure of all the companies which is
now out for FI25 as we speak uh it's
been about 50% of those companies are
still uh yet to tow the line uh within
the limit of 30 or 35% that the
regulator has stipulated. So hence that
will be something that's that will be
closely watched for. uh clearly if you
recollect even last year when the
regulator had kind of looked at these
companies they have been asked to kind
of give a clear road map every quarter
uh in terms of what is their plan to
achieve the numbers uh within that limit
of 30 or 35. So hence that will be
clearly a key determinant for most of
the players who have not necessarily
yet met the limits. uh what could happen
in terms of the competitive intensities
again which is what we responded in
response to one of the earlier calls
which is to say that I think players who
have chosen to be very aggressive in the
last 2 three years I think you can
clearly see basis their public
disclosures their combined ratios have
got significantly impacted and they are
kind of clearly calibrating growth
numbers uh and hence of course this is
market so obviously there are other set
of players who choose to then get a
aggressive in entirety when you put all
of this together which is why we called
out industry combined ratio still
continues to remain elevated at 113 and
within that motor continues to stay
elevated at 124. Okay, how long can this
subsist? Honestly, honestly we believe
that you cannot continue to lose 25
cents to a dollar uh for a very long
period of time.
And also Madukar we also believe that
sometimes the solution you're seeking on
the EU can be worse than the problem and
that's what Gopal is talking about. You
may want to chase uh business which
comes on a lower cost of acquisition at
a pricing which is very aggressive. Now
uh clearly if that's the solution
industry seeks uh to manage the um glide
path uh we will uh uh let them take that
call. Uh and to be fair it's each one to
his own self on that. Uh but we'll have
to see how it plays out.
>> Right. Also uh a followup uh see even on
health because of the long-term policies
uh
how is industry sort of reacted in terms
of you know payment of uh commission
over there on the long-term policy
that's uh one part of the question are
most people uh you know uh paying
>> answer to that is all one by we pay it
on a yearly basis for long-term health
policy. Yeah.
>> Okay. And on on renewal uh uh premiums
uh are we are we seeing some sort of
reduction in commission in in the uh in
the mail uh because that was one of the
expectations also given
>> it is and you are spot on the definitely
there's a delta which exists between the
fresh sourcing of health and the renewal
and to be fair it's at the industry
level it's not only for IC lumbar
Right. Um, Got it. Got it. Thank you.
Thanks.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Before we take the next
question, a reminder to participants
that you may press star and one to ask
questions.
The next question is from Deepipanjan Go
from City. Please go ahead.
>> Hi sir. Uh, just two questions. One on
the group health part. Obviously um you
had kind of moderated your growth u
trajectory somewhere towards the second
half of last year given the competitive
pressure so I just wanted to get some
sense you know with your base kind of
normalizing from let's say the second
half of this year I mean how do you see
the growth in that part of the segment
and the competitive intensity your loss
ratios have also kind of improved a
little bit on a y basis so how do you
see that segment behaving on the
corporate employer employee side and
second on the retail health portion of
the business I mean um you know I think
this question was asked previously also
but you know some bad calculation would
suggest that loss ratios on the backbook
are probably kind of operating at levels
which is which may be a little bit
higher than where the industry averages
are or maybe your stated averages of
around 65 to 70% steady state run rate
on the backbook I'm just talking about
so uh first of all is the assumption
correct and secondly I mean if yes then
how do you kind of uh aim to recalibrate
it
>> so group health depends I think uh I
think the call is pretty much similar to
what we spoke about on the rest of the
lines as well. Now this is a segment
where even Sanjiv had spoken about let's
say typically you get get to exhibit
maybe slightly chunky premiums but maybe
comes at a very relatively lower cost of
acquisition. So hence uh competitive
intensity continues to be higher on that
particular segment given the fact what I
spoke about on possibly some companies
wanting to ride this segment of business
to meet their uh expense of management
obligation within that is how we have
played out our growth so we will watch
for the development in case uh I think
if you see signs of easing for let's say
for companies who have to meet their
then obviously I think we are well
placed
to write the risk back. The good news as
we keep saying in our cont in our
businesses majority of our risks are
one-year risks and therefore to that
extent our ability to possibly get it
back uh is always there with us and on
the second one I think
>> on on the second one on the retail
health uh it was more with respect to
loss issue the law the loss issue which
you're talking I think Gopal has already
spoken about it uh we do believe that
coming quarters so this is uh
you know the mix the way it comes out
and a lot of NP that comes in and we
have seen a bit of a frequency spike
here and there but your backend
calculations spot on and we do believe
that uh as a company we would fare a lot
better in coming quarters as the growth
of new would start uh you know uh
overall impacting our loss ratios
positively. So your calculation is right
and we are also expecting a similar
trend.
>> Uh got it. Uh thank you sir and all of
us.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
The next question is from Mirage who's
an individual investor.
>> Call on hold please stay on.
>> Yeah Mirage's lines seem to be on hold.
Uh that was the last question in Q.
I would now like to hand the conference
over to Mr. Sanjiv Madri for any closing
comments.
>> Yeah. Right. No. Uh thank you so much
for joining. I think you all had a long
day backto-back calls. There were uh
live then you say potential now it's
Lombard. So enough and more calls. Uh
look I mean we spoken overarchingly what
we want to focus on and uh we look
forward to interacting with each one of
you in the course of the quarter. All
the best and take care of yourself.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you very much
on behalf of ICICI Lombard General
Insurance Company Limited. That
concludes the conference. Thank you for
joining us ladies and gentlemen. Even
now this connector lines